---
title: "GNU Radio Conference 2020"
date: 2018-10-21T15:36:54-07:00
type: grcon/grcon20
layout: single
aliases:
  - grcon-2020/submit
  - grcon20/submit
---

# Call for Submissions

GNU Radio Conference celebrates and showcases the substantial and remarkable
progress of the world's best open source digital signal processing framework
for software-defined radios. In addition to presenting GNU Radio’s vibrant
theoretical and practical presence in academia, industry, the military, and
among amateurs and hobbyists, GNU Radio Conference 2020 celebrates a decade of
community events.

We invite developers and users from the GNU Radio Community to present your
projects, presentations, papers, posters, and problems at GNU Radio Conference
2020. Submit your talks, demos, and code! Please share this Call for All with
anyone you think needs to read it. 

## Submitting 

You may make one or more submissions under the following categories for
presentation at GRCon. In addition to submitting a presentation, you may submit
a paper to the Technical Proceedings of GRCon20. **You do not need to submit a
paper to the Proceedings in order to present at GRCon.**

We request that papers are formatted according to this [LibreOffice
Template](/grcon_format_libreoffice.odt) or [LaTeX class](/grcon.tar.gz).

**Talks** are 20-30 minutes long, including 5 minutes reserved for questions.
Each presentation should be a slide-deck that can be shared publicly (PDF)
after the conference. For presentations that are technical in nature, talks
that present real-world development / testing will be favored over
simulation-only work.

**Tutorials** are 40 minutes long, and should have an educational or “How-To”
approach. If slides are used, they should be publicly shareable (PDF) after the
conference. Demonstrations or “real-time examples” are welcome!

**Posters** can display any type of material that you believe is interesting to
the community, and while most posters are technical, they don’t have to be.
There is no poster template, so you can create whatever layout you would like.
Poster easels will be provided.

To submit your content for the conference, visit our dedicated conference
[submission site](https://pretalx.gnuradio.org/grcon20/cfp).
## Dates

First round closes **1 July 2020**. If accepted, your content will be
immediately scheduled.  Final round closes **1 September 2020**. Space
permitting.

If you have questions or need assistance with the submission system, or have
content that doesn't quite fit and you want to talk it over, please write
[`grcon@gnuradio.org`](mailto:grcon@gnuradio.org). 

If your submission is accepted, you **must** register for the conference or
your talk will be dropped from the schedule.

Please note that submitting a paper to the Technical Proceedings is **not**
required to submit a Talk, Tutorial, or Poster, but is **strongly** encouraged.
You also do **not** need to attend the conference to publish in the Technical
Proceedings.

