---
title: "Website Update: Goodbye Flask, Hello Hugo!"
author: "Martin Braun"
date: 2018-10-20T17:18:37-07:00
draft: true
---

# Website Update: Goodbye Flask, Hello Hugo!

Once again, we've done an overhaul of our website. All web content (that is,
excluding the wiki) is now statically generated by [Hugo](https://gohugo.io).

<!--more-->

While we had switched away from Wordpress earlier this year, we still weren't
fully satisfied. Updating the website was still a little bit too cumbersome,
and we simply wanted a standard tool that just does the job (TM). As we have no
desire to track people reading our website, and we like git-based workflows,
a static site generation from a git repository was the obvious candidate. All it
took was someone to make the switch.

Once again, Andrej came in to the rescue and ported the current website and most
of the designs. We will continue to store and update the content through the
[gr-website repository](https://github.com/gnuradio/gr-website.git).

We often say it during keynotes, project updates, or calls: We suck at making
websites (Andrej's and Nate's huge amount of work non-withstanding). We're much
better at thrashing I/Q samples at high rates. So we'd really like to ask people
to chip in with keeping the website up to date. Changing it is as simple as
changing anything else in GNU Radio -- git clone, modify, push, and pull
request. We'll be collecting information on how exactly to modify the website on
the repository [README](https://github.com/gnuradio/gr-website/blob/master/README.md).

Thanks for anyone who will help us updating content and design, and another huge
shoutout to Andrej and Nate for making our website happen!
