---
title: "GNU Radio 3.10.8.0"
author: "Marcus Müller"
date: "2023-10-20"
sponsored: "0"
aliases: ["news/3.10.8.0-release"]
categories: ["release"]
banner: gr_release_web.svg
---
# Release 3.10.8.0

Generally, up-to-date information on installing GNU Radio can be found on the [Installing GNU Radio](https://wiki.gnuradio.org/index.php?title=InstallingGR#Quick_Start) page on the wiki.

# Release notes

## [3.10.8.0] - 2023-10-20

### Changed

#### Runtime
- Add `MAP_FIXED` to circular buffer implementations using `shm_open()` and
  mmap backed by tmp files. These versions are not used by most system, and
  flaws were discovered during a FreeBSD build.
- PMTs can be formatted for logging (format wrapper added).
- New `io_signature::make()` variant replaces `makev()`, and optionally specifies
  buffer types. Previous variants are still valid, for backward compatibility. The
  single-stream `make()`, along with the `makev()`, `make2()` and `make3()` variants
  should not be used in new code, and may be removed in the future.

```
    make(int min_streams,
         int max_streams,
         const std::vector<size_t>& sizeof_stream_items,
         const gr::gr_vector_buffer_type& buftypes =
             gr::gr_vector_buffer_type(1, default_buftype::type));
```

- Fix logging params to be compatible with C++20

#### GRC
- Add "Choose Editor" button to Python block properties. Use the GTK app chooser.
  Save choice to the config file.
- Correct Python Qt imports in Hier blocks and flowgraph templates.

#### gr-blocks
- Enable building the benchmark testing executable, which runs tests on various
  math functions.
- Repeat block implemented as a basic block (vs sync interpolator) and output
  buffer allocation fixed.
- Add a GRC example for Throttle usage.

#### gr-digital
- Add `set_sps()` to Symbol Sync.
- Header Format: Fix CRC and OFDM formats, add option to `header_buffer` to read
  bits lsb first, and refactor `extract_bits` functions as templates.
- Constellation Sink uses different colors for each input by default.
- Rework Constellation Soft Decoder, Constellation Object and LDPC Decoder Definition.
  Previously, the LDPC Decoder did not work at all. The `sigma` parameter was removed
  from the decoder and an optional noise power `npwr` parameter was added to the
  constellation.

#### gr-network
- Better support for vectorized output from UDP source. The payload size must still
  be a multiple of `item size * vector size` for this to work.

#### gr-qtgui
- Range widget `eng_slider` and `eng` modes can now be selected in GRC.
- Range widget and a couple of UHD apps now accept values on `editingFinished`, e.g.,
  loss of focus, rather than on `returnPressed`. Since UIs generated by GRC do not
  have OK/Apply for such values, there is no "correct" behavior. The behavior is
  now selectable on the Entry widget.
- Frequency Sink startup time improved where sample rate is low

#### gr-soapy
- RTLSDR buffer size may be specified

#### gr-uhd
- RFNoC NullSrcSink block added. The block may be both source and sink.
- Add support and examples for RFNoC loopback.
- RFNoC Rx Radio adds `issue_stream_cmd()` and block message handler.

#### gr-zeromq
- Explicitly shutdown and close source/sinks to prevent hangs in some cases.
- Require `zmq.hpp` (cppzmq) version with `context_t.shutdown()` defined.
  If `shutdown` is not defined, the `gr-zeromq` is disabled.

#### Modtool
- Add `cmake-format` support for generated modules

#### Build system and packaging
- Update Read-the-docs config to include build.tools

#### Testing
- Change Debian 11 to Debian 12 in CI
